 --------------------------------------
 My uncle -- high ideals inspire him;
 but when past joking he fell sick,
 he really forced one to admire him --
 and never played a shrewder trick.
 Let others learn from his example!
 But God, how deadly dull to sample
 sickroom attendance night and day
 and never stir a foot away!
 And the sly baseness, fit to throttle,
 of entertaining the half-dead:
 one smoothes the pillows down in bed,
 and glumly serves the medicine bottle,
 and sighs, and asks oneself all through:
 "When will the devil come for you?"''
 Such were a young rake's meditations --
 by will of Zeus, the high and just,
 the legatee of his relations --
 as horses whirled him through the dust.
 Friends of my Ruslan and Lyudmila,
 without preliminary feeler
 let me acquaint you on the nail
 with this the hero of my tale:
 Onegin, my good friend, was littered
 and bred upon the Neva's brink,
 where you were born as well, I think,
 reader, or where you've shone and glittered!
 There once I too strolled back and forth:
 but I'm allergic to the North...1
 After a fine career, his father
 had only debts on which to live.
 He gave three balls a year, and rather
 promptly had nothing left to give.
 Fate saved Evgeny from perdition:
 at first Madame gave him tuition,
 from her Monsieur took on the child.
 He was sweet-natured, and yet wild.
 Monsieur l'Abbé, the mediocre,
 reluctant to exhaust the boy,
 treated his lessons as a ploy.
 No moralizing from this joker;
 a mild rebuke was his worst mark,
 and then a stroll in Letny Park.
 But when the hour of youthful passion
 struck for Evgeny, with its play
 of hope and gloom, romantic-fashion,
 it was goodbye, Monsieur l'Abbé.
 Eugene was free, and as a dresser
 made London's dandy his professor.
 His hair was fashionably curled,
 and now at last he saw the World.
 In French Onegin had perfected
 proficiency to speak and write,
 in the mazurka he was light,
 his bow was wholly unaffected.
 The World found this enough to treat
 Eugene as clever, and quite sweet.
 We all meandered through our schooling
 haphazard; so, to God be thanks,
 it's easy, without too much fooling,
 to pass for cultured in our ranks.
 Onegin was assessed by many
 (critical judges, strict as any)
 as well-read, though of pedant cast.
 Unforced, as conversation passed,
 he had the talent of saluting
 felicitously every theme,
 of listening like a judge-supreme
 while serious topics were disputing,
 or, with an epigram-surprise,
 of kindling smiles in ladies' eyes.
 Now Latin's gone quite out of favour;
 yet, truthfully and not in chaff,
 Onegin knew enough to savour
 the meaning of an epigraph,
 make Juvenal his text, or better
 add vale when he signed a letter;
 stumblingly call to mind he did
 two verses of the Aeneid.
 He lacked the slightest predilection
 for raking up historic dust
 or stirring annalistic must;
 but groomed an anecdote-collection
 that stretched from Romulus in his prime
 across the years to our own time.
 He was without that dithyrambic
 frenzy which wrecks our lives for sound,
 and telling trochee from iambic
 was quite beyond his wit, we found.
 He cursed Theocritus and Homer,
 in Adam Smith was his diploma;
 our deep economist had got
 the gift of recognizing what
 a nation's wealth is, what augments it,
 and how a country lives, and why
 it needs no gold if a supply
 of simple product supplements it.
 His father failed to understand
 and took a mortgage on his land.
 Evgeny's total store of knowledge
 I have no leisure to recall;
 where he was master of his college,
 the art he'd studied best of all,
 his young heyday's supreme employment,
 its work, its torture, its enjoyment,
 what occupied his chafing powers
 throughout the boredom of the hours --
 this was the science of that passion
 which Ovid sang, for which the bard,
 condemned to a lifetime of hard,
 ended his wild career of fashion
 deep in Moldavia the abhorred,
 far, far from Italy, his adored.
 How early he'd learnt to dissemble,
 to hide a hope, to make a show
 of jealousy, to seem to tremble
 or pine, persuade of yes or no,
 and act the humble or imperious,
 the indifferent, or the deadly serious!
 In languid silence, or the flame
 of eloquence, and just the same
 in casual letters of confession --
 one thing inspired his breath, his heart,
 and self-oblivion was his art!
 How soft his glance, or at discretion
 how bold or bashful there, and here
 how brilliant with its instant tear!
 How well he donned new shapes and sizes --
 startling the ingenuous with a jest,
 frightening with all despair's disguises,
 amusing, flattering with the best,
 stalking the momentary weakness,
 with passion and with shrewd obliqueness
 swaying the artless, waiting on
 for unmeant kindness -- how he shone!
 then he'd implore a declaration,
 and listen for the heart's first sound,
 pursue his love -- and at one bound
 secure a secret assignation,
 then afterwards, alone, at ease,
 impart such lessons as you please!
 How early on he learnt to trouble
 the heart of the professional flirt!
 When out to burst a rival's bubble,
 how well he knew the way to hurt --
 what traps he'd set him, with what malice
 he'd pop the poison in his chalice!
 But you, blest husbands, to the end
 you kept your friendship with our friend:
 the subtle spouse was just as loyal --
 Faublas'3 disciple for an age --
 as was the old suspicious sage,
 and the majestic, antlered royal,
 always contented with his life,
 and with his dinner, and his wife.
 Some days he's still in bed, and drowses,
 when little notes come on a tray.
 What? Invitations? Yes, three houses
 have each asked him to a soirée:
 a ball here, there a children's party;
 where shall he go, my rogue, my hearty?
 Which one comes first? It's just the same
 to do them all is easy game.
 Meanwhile, attired for morning strolling
 complete with broad-brimmed bolivar,
 Eugene attends the boulevard,
 and there at large he goes patrolling
 until Bréguet's unsleeping chime
 advises him of dinner-time.
 He mounts the sledge, with daylight fading:
 ``Make way, make way,'' goes up the shout;
 his collar in its beaver braiding
 glitters with hoar-frost all about.
 He's flown to Talon's,4 calculating
 that there his friend Kavérin's5 waiting;
 he arrives -- the cork goes flying up,
 wine of the Comet6 fills the cup;
 before him roast beef, red and gory,
 and truffles, which have ever been
 youth's choice, the flower of French cuisine:
 and pâté, Strasbourg's deathless glory,
 sits with Limburg's vivacious cheese
 and ananas, the gold of trees.
 More wine, he calls, to drench the flaming
 fire of the cutlets' scalding fat,
 when Bréguet's chime is heard proclaiming
 the new ballet he should be at.
 He's off -- this ruthless legislator
 for the footlights, this fickle traitor
 to all the most adored actrices,
 this denizen of the coulisses
 that world where every man's a critic
 who'll clap an entrechat, or scoff
 at Cleopatra, hiss her off,
 boo Phaedra out as paralytic,
 encore Moëna,7 -- and rejoice
 to know the audience hears his voice.
 Enchanted land! There like a lampion
 that king of the satiric scene,
 Fonvizin8 sparkled, freedom's champion,
 and the derivative Knyazhnín:8
 there сzerov8 shared the unwilling
 tribute of tears, applause's shrilling,
 with young Semyónova,9 and there
 our friend Katénin8 brought to bear
 once more Corneille's majestic story;
 there caustic Shakhovskóy8 came in
 with comedies of swarm and din;
 there Didelot10 crowned himself with glory:
 there, where the coulisse entrance went,
 that's where my years of youth were spent.
 My goddesses! Where are you banished?
 lend ears to my lugubrious tone:
 have other maidens, since you vanished,
 taken your place, though not your throne?
 your chorus, is it dead for ever?
 Russia's Terpsichore, shall never
 again I see your soulful flight?
 shall my sad gaze no more alight
 on features known, but to that dreary,
 that alien scene must I now turn
 my disillusioned glass, and yearn,
 bored with hilarity, and weary,
 and yawn in silence at the stage
 as I recall a bygone age?
 The house is packed out; scintillating,
 the boxes; boiling, pit and stalls;
 the gallery claps -- it's bored with waiting --
 and up the rustling curtain crawls.
 Then with a half-ethereal splendour,
 bound where the magic bow will send her,
 Istómina,11 thronged all around
 by Naiads, one foot on the ground,
 twirls the other slowly as she pleases,
 then suddenly she's off, and there
 she's up and flying through the air
 like fluff before Aeolian breezes;
 she'll spin this way and that, and beat
 against each other swift, small feet.
 Applause. Onegin enters -- passes
 across the public's toes; he steers
 straight to his stall, then turns his glasses
 on unknown ladies in the tiers;
 he's viewed the boxes without passion,
 he's seen it all; with looks and fashion
 he's dreadfully dissatisfied;
 to gentlemen on every side
 he's bowed politely; his attention
 wanders in a distracted way
 across the stage; he yawns: ``Ballet --
 they all have richly earned a pension;''
 he turns away: ``I've had enough --
 now even Didelot's tedious stuff.''
 Still tumbling, devil, snake and Cupid
 on stage are thumping without cease;
 Still in the porch, exhausted-stupid,
 the footmen sleep on the pelisses;
 the audience still is busy stamping,
 still coughing, hissing, clapping, champing;
 still everywhere the lamps are bright;
 outside and in they star the night;
 still shivering in the bitter weather
 the horses fidget worse and worse;
 the coachmen ring the fire, and curse
 their lords, and thwack their palms together;
 but Eugene's out from din and press:
 by now he's driving home to dress.
 Shall I depict with expert knowledge
 the cabinet behind the door
 where the prize-boy of fashion's college
 is dressed, undressed, and dressed once more?
 Whatever for caprice of spending
 ingenious London has been sending
 across the Baltic in exchange
 for wood and tallow; all the range
 of useful objects that the curious
 Parisian taste invents for one --
 for friends of languor, or of fun,
 or for the modishly luxurious --
 all this, at eighteen years of age,
 adorned the sanctum of our sage.
 Porcelain and bronzes on the table,
 with amber pipes from Tsaregrad;12
 such crystalled scents as best are able
 to drive the swooning senses mad;
 with combs, and steel utensils serving
 as files, and scissors straight and curving,
 brushes on thirty different scales;
 brushes for teeth, brushes for nails.
 Rousseau (forgive a short distraction)
 could not conceive how solemn Grimm13
 dared clean his nails in front of him,
 the brilliant crackpot: this reaction
 shows freedom's advocate, that strong
 champion of rights, as in the wrong.
 A man who's active and incisive
 can yet keep nail-care much in mind:
 why fight what's known to be decisive?
 custom is despot of mankind.
 Dressed like -- --,14 duly dreading
 the barbs that envy's always spreading,
 Eugene's a pedant in his dress,
 in fact a thorough fop, no less.
 Three whole hours, at the least accounting,
 he'll spend before the looking-glass,
 then from his cabinet he'll pass
 giddy as Venus when she's mounting
 a masculine disguise to aid
 her progress at the masquerade.
 Your curiosity is burning
 to hear what latest modes require,
 and so, before the world of learning,
 I could describe here his attire;
 and though to do so would be daring,
 it's my profession; he was wearing --
 but pantaloons, waistcoat, and frock,
 these words are not of Russian stock:
 I know (and seek your exculpation)
 that even so my wretched style
 already tends too much to smile
 on words of foreign derivation,
 though years ago I used to look
 at the Academic Diction-book.
 That isn't our immediate worry:
 we'd better hasten to the ball,
 where, in a cab, and furious hurry,
 Onegin has outrun us all.
 Along the fronts of darkened houses,
 along the street where slumber drowses,
 twin lamps of serried coupés throw
 a cheerful glimmer on the snow
 and radiate a rainbow: blazing
 with lampions studded all about
 the sumptuous palais shines out;
 shadows that flit behind the glazing
 project in silhouette the tops
 of ladies and of freakish fops.
 Up to the porch our hero's driven:
 in, past concierge, up marble stair
 flown like an arrow, then he's given
 a deft arrangement to his hair,
 and entered. Ballroom overflowing...
 and band already tired of blowing,
 while a mazurka holds the crowd;
 and everything is cramped and loud;
 spurs of Chevalier Gardes are clinking,
 dear ladies' feet fly past like hail,
 and on their captivating trail
 incendiary looks are slinking,
 while roar of violins contrives
 to drown the hiss of modish wives.
 In days of carefree aspirations,
 the ballroom drove me off my head:
 the safest place for declarations,
 and where most surely notes are sped.
 You husbands, deeply I respect you!
 I'm at your service to protect you;
 now pay attention, I beseech,
 and take due warning from my speech.
 You too, mamas, I pray attend it,
 and watch your daughters closer yet,
 yes, focus on them your lorgnette,
 or else... or else, may God forfend it!
 I only write like this, you know,
 since I stopped sinning years ago.
 Alas, on pleasure's wild variety
 I've wasted too much life away!
 But, did they not corrupt society,
 I'd still like dances to this day:
 the atmosphere of youth and madness,
 the crush, the glitter and the gladness,
 the ladies' calculated dress;
 I love their feet -- though I confess
 that all of Russia can't contribute
 three pairs of handsome ones -- yet there
 exists for me one special pair!
 one pair! I pay them memory's tribute
 though cold I am and sad; in sleep
 the heartache that they bring lies deep.
 Oh, when, and to what desert banished,
 madman, can you forget their print?
 my little feet, where have you vanished,
 what flowers of spring display your dint?
 Nursed in the orient's languid weakness,
 across our snows of northern bleakness
 you left no steps that could be tracked:
 you loved the opulent contact
 of rugs, and carpets' rich refinement.
 Was it for you that I became
 long since unstirred by praise and fame
 and fatherland and grim confinement?
 The happiness of youth is dead,
 just like, on turf, your fleeting tread.
 Diana's breast, the cheeks of Flora,
 all these are charming! but to put
 it frankly, I'm a firm adorer
 of the Terpsichorean foot.
 It fascinates by its assurance
 of recompense beyond endurance,
 and fastens, like a term of art,
 the wilful fancies of the heart.
 My love for it is just as tender,
 under the table's linen shield,
 on springtime grasses of the field,
 in winter, on the cast-iron fender,
 on ballroom's looking-glass parquet
 or on the granite of the bay.
 On the seashore, with storm impending,
 how envious was I of the waves
 each in tumultuous turn descending
 to lie down at her feet like slaves!
 I longed, like every breaker hissing,
 to smother her dear feet with kissing.
 No, never in the hottest fire
 of boiling youth did I desire
 with any torture so exquisite
 to kiss Armida's lips, or seek
 the flaming roses of a cheek,
 or languid bosoms; and no visit
 of raging passion's surge and roll
 ever so roughly rocked my soul!
 Another page of recollection:
 sometimes, in reverie's sacred land,
 I grasp a stirrup with affection,
 I feel a small foot in my hand;
 fancies once more are hotly bubbling,
 once more that touch is fiercely troubling
 the blood within my withered heart,
 once more the love, once more the smart...
 But, now I've praised the queens of fashion,
 enough of my loquacious lyre:
 they don't deserve what they inspire
 in terms of poetry or passion --
 their looks and language in deceit
 are just as nimble as their feet.
 And Eugene? half-awake, half-drowsing,
 from ball to bed behold him come;
 while Petersburg's already rousing,
 untirable, at sound of drum:
 the merchant's up, the cabman's walking
 towards his stall, the pedlar's hawking;
 see with their jugs the milk-girls go
 and crisply crunch the morning snow.
 The city's early sounds awake her;
 shutters are opened and the soft
 blue smoke of chimneys goes aloft,
 and more than once the German baker,
 punctilious in his cotton cap,
 has opened up his serving-trap.
 Exhausted by the ballroom's clamour,
 converting morning to midnight,
 he sleeps, away from glare and glamour,
 this child of luxury and delight.
 Then, after midday he'll be waking;
 his life till dawn's already making,
 always monotonously gay,
 tomorrow just like yesterday.
 But was it happy, his employment,
 his freedom, in his youth's first flower,
 with brilliant conquests by the shower,
 and every day its own enjoyment?
 Was it to no effect that he,
 at feasts, was strong and fancy-free?
 No, early on his heart was cooling
 and he was bored with social noise;
 no, not for long were belles the ruling
 objective of his thoughts and joys:
 soon, infidelity proved cloying,
 and friends and friendship, soul-destroying;
 not every day could he wash down
 his beefsteak with champagne, or drown
 his Strasbourg pie, or point a moral,
 full of his usual pith and wit,
 with cranium aching fit to split;
 and though he liked a fiery quarrel --
 yet he fell out of love at last
 with sabre's slash, and bullet's blast.
 The illness with which he'd been smitten
 should have been analysed when caught,
 something like spleen, that scourge of Britain,
 or Russia's chondria, for short;
 it mastered him in slow gradation;
 thank God, he had no inclination
 to blow his brains out, but in stead
 to life grew colder than the dead.
 So, like Childe Harold, glum, unpleasing,
 he stalked the drawing-rooms, remote
 from Boston's cloth or gossip's quote;
 no glance so sweet, no sigh so teasing,
 no, nothing caused his heart to stir,
 and nothing pierced his senses' blur.
 Capricious belles of grand Society!
 you were the first ones he forswore;
 for in our time, beyond dubiety,
 the highest circles are a bore.
 It's true, I'll not misrepresent them,
 some ladies preach from Say and Bentham,
 but by and large their talk's a hash
 of the most harmless, hopeless trash.
 And what's more, they're so supercilious,
 so pure, so spotless through and through,
 so pious, and so clever too,
 so circumspect, and so punctilious,
 so virtuous that, no sooner seen,
 at once they give a man the spleen.
 You too, prime beauties in your flower
 who late at night are whirled away
 by drozhkies jaunting at full power
 over the Petersburg pavé --
 he ended even your employment;
 and in retreat from all enjoyment
 locked himself up inside his den
 and with a yawn took up his pen,
 and tried to write, but a hard session
 of work made him feel sick, and still
 no word came flowing from his quill;
 he failed to join that sharp profession
 which I myself won't praise or blame
 since I'm a member of the same.
 Idle again by dedication,
 oppressed by emptiness of soul,
 he strove to achieve the appropriation
 of other's thought -- a splendid goal;
 with shelves of books deployed for action,
 he read, and read -- no satisfaction:
 here's boredom, madness or pretence,
 here there's no conscience, here no sense;
 they're all chained up in different fetters,
 the ancients have gone stiff and cold,
 the moderns rage against the old.
 He'd given up girls -- now gave up letters,
 and hid the bookshelf's dusty stack
 in taffeta of mourning black.
 Escaped from social rhyme and reason,
 retired, as he, from fashion's stream,
 I was Onegin's friend that season.
 I liked his quality, the dream
 which held him silently subjected,
 his strangeness, wholly unaffected,
 his mind, so cold and so precise.
 The bitterness was mine -- the ice
 was his; we'd both drunk passion's chalice:
 our lives were flat, and what had fired
 both hearts to blaze had now expired;
 there waited for us both the malice
 of blind Fortuna and of men
 in lives that were just dawning then.
 He who has lived and thought is certain
 to scorn the men with whom he deals;
 days that are lost behind the curtain,
 ghostlike, must trouble him who feels --
 for him all sham has found rejection,
 he's gnawed by serpent Recollection,
 and by Repentance. All this lends,
 on most occasions between friends,
 a great attraction to conversing.
 At first Onegin's tongue produced
 a haze in me, but I grew used
 to his disputing and his cursing;
 his virulence that made you smile,
 his epigrams topped up with bile.
 How often, when the sky was glowing,
 by Neva, on a summer night,
 and when its waters were not showing,
 in their gay glass, the borrowed light
 of Dian's visage, in our fancies
 recalling earlier time's romances,
 recalling earlier loves, did we,
 now sensitive, and now carefree,
 drink in the midnight benediction,
 the silence when our talk had ceased!
 Like convicts in a dream released
 from gaol to greenwood, by such fiction
 we were swept off, in reverie's haze,
 to the beginning of our days.
 Evgeny stood, with soul regretful,
 and leant upon the granite shelf;
 he stood there, pensive and forgetful,
 just as the Poet15 paints himself.
 Silence was everywhere enthralling;
 just sentries to each other calling,
 and then a drozhky's clopping sound
 from Million Street16 came floating round;
 and then a boat, with oars a-swinging,
 swam on the river's dreaming face,
 and then, with an enchanting grace,
 came distant horns, and gallant singing.
 Yet sweeter far, at such a time,
 the strain of Tasso's octave-rhyme!
 O Adrian waves, my invocation;
 O Brenta, I'll see you in dream;
 hear, once more filled with inspiration,
 the magic voices of your stream,
 sacred to children of Apollo!
 Proud Albion's lyre is what I follow,
 through it they're known to me, and kin.
 Italian nights, when I'll drink in
 your molten gold, your charmed infusion;
 with a Venetian maiden who
 can chatter, and be silent too,
 I'll float in gondola's seclusion;
 from her my lips will learn and mark
 the tongue of love and of Petrarch.
 When comes my moment to untether?
 ``it's time!'' and freedom hears my hail.
 I walk the shore,17 I watch the weather,
 I signal to each passing sail.
 Beneath storm's vestment, on the seaway,
 battling along that watery freeway,
 when shall I start on my escape?
 It's time to drop astern the shape
 of the dull shores of my disfavour,
 and there, beneath your noonday sky,
 my Africa,18 where waves break high,
 to mourn for Russia's gloomy savour,
 land where I learned to love and weep,
 land where my heart is buried deep.
 Eugene would willingly have started
 with me to see an alien strand;
 but soon the ways we trod were parted
 for quite a while by fortune's hand.
 His father died; and (as expected)
 before Onegin there collected
 the usurers' voracious tribe.
 To private tastes we each subscribe:
 Evgeny, hating litigation,
 and satisfied with what he'd got,
 made over to them his whole lot,
 finding in that no deprivation --
 or else, from far off, he could see
 old Uncle's end was soon to be.
 In fact one day a note came flying
 from the agent, with this tale to tell:
 Uncle, in bed, and near to dying,
 wished him to come and say farewell.
 Evgeny read the sad epistle
 and set off prompter than a whistle
 as fast as post-horses could go,
 already yawned before the show,
 exercised, under lucre's banner,
 in sighs and boredom and deceits
 (my tale's beginning here repeats);
 but, when he'd rushed to Uncle's manor,
 a corpse on boards was all he found,
 an offering ready for the ground.
 The yard was bursting with dependants;
 there gathered at the coffin-side
 friends, foes, priests, guests, inured attendants
 of every funeral far and wide;
 they buried Uncle, congregated
 to eat and drink, then separated
 with grave goodbyes to the bereaved,
 as if some goal had been achieved.
 Eugene turned countryman. He tasted
 the total ownership of woods,
 mills, lands and waters -- he whose goods
 till then had been dispersed and wasted --
 and glad he was he'd thus arranged
 for his old courses to be changed.
 It all seemed new -- for two days only --
 the coolness of the sombre glade,
 the expanse of fields, so wide, so lonely,
 the murmur where the streamlet played...
 the third day, wood and hill and grazing
 gripped him no more; soon they were raising
 an urge to sleep; soon, clear as clear,
 he saw that, as in cities, here
 boredom has just as sure an entry,
 although there are no streets, no cards,
 no mansions, no ballrooms, no bards.
 Yes, spleen was waiting like a sentry,
 and dutifully shared his life
 just like a shadow, or a wife.
 No, I was born for peace abounding
 and country stillness: there the lyre
 has voices that are more resounding,
 poetic dreams, a brighter fire.
 To harmless idleness devoted,
 on waves of far niente floated,
 I roam by the secluded lake.
 And every morning I awake
 to freedom, softness and enjoyment:
 sleep much, read little, and put down
 the thought of volatile renown.
 Was it not in such sweet employment
 such shadowy and leisured ways,
 that once I spent my happiest days?
 O flowers, and love, and rustic leisure,
 o fields -- to you I'm vowed at heart.
 I regularly take much pleasure
 in showing how to tell apart
 myself and Eugene, lest a reader
 of mocking turn, or else a breeder
 of calculated slander should,
 spying my features, as he could,
 put back the libel on the table
 that, like proud Byron, I can draw
 self-portraits only -- furthermore
 the charge that poets are unable
 to sing of others must imply
 Poets, I'll say in this connection,
 adore the love that comes in dream.
 In time past, objects of affection
 peopled my sleep, and to their theme
 my soul in secret gave survival;
 then from the Muse there came revival:
 my carefree song would thus reveal
 the mountain maiden,19 my ideal,
 and captive girls, by Salgir20 lying.
 And now, my friends, I hear from you
 a frequent question: ``tell me who
 inspires your lute to sounds of sighing?
 To whom do you, from all the train
 of jealous girls, devote its strain?
 ``Whose glance, provoking inspiration,
 rewards the music of your mind
 with fond caress? whose adoration
 is in your poetry enshrined?''
 No one's, I swear by God! in sadness
 I suffered once from all the madness
 of love's anxiety. Blessed is he
 who can combine it with the free
 fever of rhyme: thereby he's doubled
 poetry's sacred frenzy, made
 a stride on Petrarch's path, allayed
 the pangs with which his heart was troubled,
 and, with it, forced renown to come --
 but I, in love, was dull and dumb.
 Love passed, the Muse appeared, the weather
 of mind got clarity new-found;
 now free, I once more weave together
 emotion, thought, and magic sound;
 I write, my heart has ceased its pining,
 my thoughtless pen has stopped designing,
 beside unfinished lines, a suite
 of ladies' heads, and ladies' feet;
 dead ash sets no more sparks a-flying;
 I'm grieving still, but no more tears,
 and soon, oh soon the storm's arrears
 will in my soul be hushed and dying.
 That's when I'll sit down to compose
 an ode in twenty-five cantos.
 I've drawn a plan and a projection,
 the hero's name's decided too.
 Meanwhile my novel's opening section
 is finished, and I've looked it through
 meticulously; in my fiction
 there's far too much of contradiction,
 but I refuse to chop or change.
 The censor's tribute, I'll arrange:
 I'll feed the journalists for dinner
 fruits of my labour and my ink...
 So now be off to Neva's brink,
 you newborn work, and like a winner
 earn for me the rewards of fame --
 misunderstanding, noise, and blame!``
