 --------------------------------------
 Friends of my Ruslan and Lyudmila,
 in Adam Smith was his diploma;
 Diana's breast, the cheeks of Flora,
 it was goodbye, Monsieur l'Abbé.
 but I, in love, was dull and dumb.
 and telling trochee from iambic
 He was without that dithyrambic
 that world where every man's a critic
 boo Phaedra out as paralytic,
 to life grew colder than the dead.
 of entertaining the half-dead:
 The happiness of youth is dead,
 the ballroom drove me off my head:
 just like, on turf, your fleeting tread.
 to blow his brains out, but in stead
 to drive the swooning senses mad;
 with amber pipes from Tsaregrad;12
 one smoothes the pillows down in bed,
 At first Onegin's tongue produced
 for his old courses to be changed.
 and glad he was he'd thus arranged
 Oh, when, and to what desert banished,
 My goddesses! Where are you banished?
 have other maidens, since you vanished,
 my little feet, where have you vanished,
 he's dreadfully dissatisfied;
 you left no steps that could be tracked:
 fever of rhyme: thereby he's doubled
 the pangs with which his heart was troubled,
 His hair was fashionably curled,
 is in your poetry enshrined?''
 and where most surely notes are sped.
 reader, or where you've shone and glittered!
 Onegin, my good friend, was littered
 our lives were flat, and what had fired
 both hearts to blaze had now expired;
 far, far from Italy, his adored.
 deep in Moldavia the abhorred,
 the silence when our talk had ceased!
 Like convicts in a dream released
 Unforced, as conversation passed,
 a haze in me, but I grew used
 they buried Uncle, congregated
 on waves of far niente floated,
 to eat and drink, then separated
 his bow was wholly unaffected.
 his strangeness, wholly unaffected,
 In French Onegin had perfected
 which held him silently subjected,
 before Onegin there collected
 His father died; and (as expected)
 To harmless idleness devoted,
 but soon the ways we trod were parted
 Eugene would willingly have started
 Eugene turned countryman. He tasted
 till then had been dispersed and wasted --
 with grave goodbyes to the bereaved,
 as if some goal had been achieved.
 a stride on Petrarch's path, allayed
 the murmur where the streamlet played...
 a masculine disguise to aid
 stumblingly call to mind he did
 two verses of the Aeneid.
 Still tumbling, devil, snake and Cupid
 Still in the porch, exhausted-stupid,
 on springtime grasses of the field,
 under the table's linen shield,
 from her Monsieur took on the child.
 He was sweet-natured, and yet wild.
 the ancients have gone stiff and cold,
 the moderns rage against the old.
 and now at last he saw the World.
 spying my features, as he could,
 of calculated slander should,
 for quite a while by fortune's hand.
 I feel a small foot in my hand;
 sometimes, in reverie's sacred land,
 and took a mortgage on his land.
 with me to see an alien strand;
 His father failed to understand
 But you, blest husbands, to the end
 you kept your friendship with our friend:
 custom is despot of mankind.
 can yet keep nail-care much in mind:
 rewards the music of your mind
 pursue his love -- and at one bound
 a corpse on boards was all he found,
 was quite beyond his wit, we found.
 of mind got clarity new-found;
 Istómina,11 thronged all around
 by Naiads, one foot on the ground,
 an offering ready for the ground.
 from Million Street16 came floating round;
 emotion, thought, and magic sound;
 and then a drozhky's clopping sound
 frenzy which wrecks our lives for sound,
 and listen for the heart's first sound,
 which Ovid sang, for which the bard,
 condemned to a lifetime of hard,
 Eugene attends the boulevard,
 and everything is cramped and loud;
 while a mazurka holds the crowd;
 To private tastes we each subscribe:
 the usurers' voracious tribe.
 old Uncle's end was soon to be.
 swam on the river's dreaming face,
 and then, with an enchanting grace,
 The bitterness was mine -- the ice
 he'd pop the poison in his chalice!
 was his; we'd both drunk passion's chalice:
 there waited for us both the malice
 what traps he'd set him, with what malice
 encore Moëna,7 -- and rejoice
 to know the audience hears his voice.
 of recompense beyond endurance,
 It fascinates by its assurance
 here's boredom, madness or pretence,
 the coolness of the sombre glade,
 poetry's sacred frenzy, made
 her progress at the masquerade.
 there gathered at the coffin-side
 to gentlemen on every side
 of every funeral far and wide;
 who can combine it with the free
 now sensitive, and now carefree,
 at feasts, was strong and fancy-free?
 or else, from far off, he could see
 and dutifully shared his life
 always contented with his life,
 just like a shadow, or a wife.
 and with his dinner, and his wife.
 as I recall a bygone age?
 all this, at eighteen years of age,
 Faublas'3 disciple for an age --
 adorned the sanctum of our sage.
 as was the old suspicious sage,
 and yawn in silence at the stage
 Evgeny's total store of knowledge
 Shall I depict with expert knowledge
 where he was master of his college,
 where the prize-boy of fashion's college
 but I refuse to chop or change.
 across the Baltic in exchange
 for wood and tallow; all the range
 The censor's tribute, I'll arrange:
 of love's anxiety. Blessed is he
 Was it to no effect that he,
 I roam by the secluded lake.
 And every morning I awake
 with this the hero of my tale:
 such crystalled scents as best are able
 the charge that poets are unable
 put back the libel on the table
 Porcelain and bronzes on the table,
 When out to burst a rival's bubble,
 of jealousy, to seem to tremble
 How early he'd learnt to dissemble,
 How early on he learnt to trouble
 his epigrams topped up with bile.
 already tends too much to smile
 his virulence that made you smile,
 But God, how deadly dull to sample
 Let others learn from his example!
 and set off prompter than a whistle
 Evgeny read the sad epistle
 and glumly serves the medicine bottle,
 And the sly baseness, fit to throttle,
 that even so my wretched style
 Was it for you that I became
 long since unstirred by praise and fame
 earn for me the rewards of fame --
 to do them all is easy game.
 misunderstanding, noise, and blame!``
 which I myself won't praise or blame
 In languid silence, or the flame
 since I'm a member of the same.
 of eloquence, and just the same
 Which one comes first? It's just the same
 peopled my sleep, and to their theme
 felicitously every theme,
 of listening like a judge-supreme
 until Bréguet's unsleeping chime
 that stretched from Romulus in his prime
 Yet sweeter far, at such a time,
 across the years to our own time.
 advises him of dinner-time.
 from ball to bed behold him come;
 and, with it, forced renown to come --
 the strain of Tasso's octave-rhyme!
 that king of the satiric scene,
 youth's choice, the flower of French cuisine:
 for unmeant kindness -- how he shone!
 taken your place, though not your throne?
 Parisian taste invents for one --
 lend ears to my lugubrious tone:
 when shall I start on my escape?
 It's time to drop astern the shape
 Monsieur l'Abbé, the mediocre,
 how bold or bashful there, and here
 he saw that, as in cities, here
 with young Semyónova,9 and there
 then suddenly she's off, and there
 three pairs of handsome ones -- yet there
 poetic dreams, a brighter fire.
 No, never in the hottest fire
 have each asked him to a soirée:
 they don't deserve what they inspire
 of boiling youth did I desire
 I could describe here his attire;
 to hear what latest modes require,
 the highest circles are a bore.
 is dressed, undressed, and dressed once more?
 self-portraits only -- furthermore
 you were the first ones he forswore;
 I regularly take much pleasure
 O flowers, and love, and rustic leisure,
 and country stillness: there the lyre
 enough of my loquacious lyre:
 on stage are thumping without cease;
 impart such lessons as you please!
 then afterwards, alone, at ease,
 sits with Limburg's vivacious cheese
 his mind, so cold and so precise.
 and he was bored with social noise;
 or, with an epigram-surprise,
 here there's no conscience, here no sense;
 That's when I'll sit down to compose
 the horses fidget worse and worse;
 the coachmen ring the fire, and curse
 proficiency to speak and write,
 with any torture so exquisite
 beside unfinished lines, a suite
 he stalked the drawing-rooms, remote
 from Boston's cloth or gossip's quote;
 yes, focus on them your lorgnette,
 that all of Russia can't contribute
 one pair! I pay them memory's tribute
 promptly had nothing left to give.
 had only debts on which to live.
 why fight what's known to be decisive?
 A man who's active and incisive
 recalling earlier loves, did we,
 we were swept off, in reverie's haze,
 yet, truthfully and not in chaff,
 who'll clap an entrechat, or scoff
 at Cleopatra, hiss her off,
 now even Didelot's tedious stuff.''
 and leant upon the granite shelf;
 just as the Poet15 paints himself.
 Dressed like -- --,14 duly dreading
 the barbs that envy's always spreading,
 He mounts the sledge, with daylight fading:
 his collar in its beaver braiding
 each in tumultuous turn descending
 On the seashore, with storm impending,
 Whatever for caprice of spending
 ingenious London has been sending
 No, I was born for peace abounding
 has voices that are more resounding,
 came distant horns, and gallant singing.
 and then a boat, with oars a-swinging,
 inspires your lute to sounds of sighing?
 his life till dawn's already making,
 Then, after midday he'll be waking;
 the merchant's up, the cabman's walking
 spurs of Chevalier Gardes are clinking,
 incendiary looks are slinking,
 towards his stall, the pedlar's hawking;
 fancies once more are hotly bubbling,
 once more that touch is fiercely troubling
 just sentries to each other calling,
 Silence was everywhere enthralling;
 tribute of tears, applause's shrilling,
 there сzerov8 shared the unwilling
 and there at large he goes patrolling
 Meanwhile, attired for morning strolling
 No, early on his heart was cooling
 it's easy, without too much fooling,
 We all meandered through our schooling
 no, not for long were belles the ruling
 More wine, he calls, to drench the flaming
 when Bréguet's chime is heard proclaiming
 my thoughtless pen has stopped designing,
 I write, my heart has ceased its pining,
 and so, before the world of learning,
 Your curiosity is burning
 still coughing, hissing, clapping, champing;
 the audience still is busy stamping,
 and though to do so would be daring,
 it's my profession; he was wearing --
 So, like Childe Harold, glum, unpleasing,
 no glance so sweet, no sigh so teasing,
 gripped him no more; soon they were raising
 a great attraction to conversing.
 to his disputing and his cursing;
 I longed, like every breaker hissing,
 to smother her dear feet with kissing.
 while Petersburg's already rousing,
 And Eugene? half-awake, half-drowsing,
 The house is packed out; scintillating,
 He's flown to Talon's,4 calculating
 the gallery claps -- it's bored with waiting --
 that there his friend Kavérin's5 waiting;
 Three whole hours, at the least accounting,
 giddy as Venus when she's mounting
 he had the talent of saluting
 while serious topics were disputing,
 with combs, and steel utensils serving
 as files, and scissors straight and curving,
 and when its waters were not showing,
 and band already tired of blowing,
 and entered. Ballroom overflowing...
 How often, when the sky was glowing,
 will in my soul be hushed and dying.
 Uncle, in bed, and near to dying,
 dead ash sets no more sparks a-flying;
 In fact one day a note came flying
 and captive girls, by Salgir20 lying.
 soon, infidelity proved cloying,
 and friends and friendship, soul-destroying;
 and radiate a rainbow: blazing
 shadows that flit behind the glazing
 the third day, wood and hill and grazing
 shows freedom's advocate, that strong
 champion of rights, as in the wrong.
 and take due warning from my speech.
 now pay attention, I beseech,
 the tongue of love and of Petrarch.
 my Africa,18 where waves break high,
 he turns away: ``I've had enough --
 so pure, so spotless through and through,
 and sighs, and asks oneself all through:
 is finished, and I've looked it through
 the meaning of an epigraph,
 but by and large their talk's a hash
 of the most harmless, hopeless trash.
 but I'm allergic to the North...1
 There once I too strolled back and forth:
 in taffeta of mourning black.
 and hid the bookshelf's dusty stack
 and never played a shrewder trick.
 but when past joking he fell sick,
 but pantaloons, waistcoat, and frock,
 these words are not of Russian stock:
 the flaming roses of a cheek,
 to kiss Armida's lips, or seek
 where you were born as well, I think,
 and bred upon the Neva's brink,
 So now be off to Neva's brink,
 fruits of my labour and my ink...
 at the Academic Diction-book.
 though years ago I used to look
 and then a stroll in Letny Park.
 from her my lips will learn and mark
 a mild rebuke was his worst mark,
 the mountain maiden,19 my ideal,
 my carefree song would thus reveal
 of other's thought -- a splendid goal;
 his Strasbourg pie, or point a moral,
 then from the Muse there came revival:
 my soul in secret gave survival;
 the subtle spouse was just as loyal --
 and the majestic, antlered royal,
 and though he liked a fiery quarrel --
 dear ladies' feet fly past like hail,
 ``it's time!'' and freedom hears my hail.
 let me acquaint you on the nail
 and on their captivating trail
 I signal to each passing sail.
 we'd better hasten to the ball,
 I have no leisure to recall;
 the art he'd studied best of all,
 Onegin has outrun us all.
 from the agent, with this tale to tell:
 wished him to come and say farewell.
 of work made him feel sick, and still
 no word came flowing from his quill;
 of raging passion's surge and roll
 he stood there, pensive and forgetful,
 Evgeny stood, with soul regretful,
 oppressed by emptiness of soul,
 ever so roughly rocked my soul!
 I liked his quality, the dream
 adore the love that comes in dream.
 O Brenta, I'll see you in dream;
 the magic voices of your stream,
 retired, as he, from fashion's stream,
 some ladies preach from Say and Bentham,
 It's true, I'll not misrepresent them,
 he really forced one to admire him --
 My uncle -- high ideals inspire him;
 dared clean his nails in front of him,
 could not conceive how solemn Grimm13
 untirable, at sound of drum:
 locked himself up inside his den
 and truffles, which have ever been
 at once they give a man the spleen.
 so virtuous that, no sooner seen,
 in lives that were just dawning then.
 of blind Fortuna and of men
 and with a yawn took up his pen,
 The illness with which he'd been smitten
 flown like an arrow, then he's given
 Up to the porch our hero's driven:
 To whom do you, from all the train
 of jealous girls, devote its strain?
 something like spleen, that scourge of Britain,
 He who has lived and thought is certain
 days that are lost behind the curtain,
 with comedies of swarm and din;
 there caustic Shakhovskóy8 came in
 through it they're known to me, and kin.
 Italian nights, when I'll drink in
 and the derivative Knyazhnín:8
 swaying the artless, waiting on
 of hope and gloom, romantic-fashion,
 he's seen it all; with looks and fashion
 ended his wild career of fashion
 But, now I've praised the queens of fashion,
 Fonvizin8 sparkled, freedom's champion,
 Enchanted land! There like a lampion
 they all have richly earned a pension;''
 But when the hour of youthful passion
 in terms of poetry or passion --
 this was the science of that passion
 he's viewed the boxes without passion,
 in casual letters of confession --
 he failed to join that sharp profession
 and tried to write, but a hard session
 your molten gold, your charmed infusion;
 I'll float in gondola's seclusion;
 Idle again by dedication,
 O Adrian waves, my invocation;
 it mastered him in slow gradation;
 Evgeny, hating litigation,
 he strove to achieve the appropriation
 secure a secret assignation,
 thank God, he had no inclination
 I know (and seek your exculpation)
 then he'd implore a declaration,
 ``Whose glance, provoking inspiration,
 hear, once more filled with inspiration,
 with fond caress? whose adoration
 on words of foreign derivation,
 finding in that no deprivation --
 the brilliant crackpot: this reaction
 he read, and read -- no satisfaction:
 with shelves of books deployed for action,
 Rousseau (forgive a short distraction)
 In time past, objects of affection
 I grasp a stirrup with affection,
 for him all sham has found rejection,
 I've drawn a plan and a projection,
 He lacked the slightest predilection
 he's gnawed by serpent Recollection,
 Another page of recollection:
 but groomed an anecdote-collection
 Poets, I'll say in this connection,
 Meanwhile my novel's opening section
 there's far too much of contradiction,
 drink in the midnight benediction,
 from gaol to greenwood, by such fiction
 meticulously; in my fiction
 How soft his glance, or at discretion
 Fate saved Evgeny from perdition:
 at first Madame gave him tuition,
 he's bowed politely; his attention
 Escaped from social rhyme and reason,
 I was Onegin's friend that season.
 my disillusioned glass, and yearn,
 that alien scene must I now turn
 for friends of languor, or of fun,
 not every day could he wash down
 sleep much, read little, and put down
 the thought of volatile renown.
 his beefsteak with champagne, or drown
 since I stopped sinning years ago.
 as fast as post-horses could go,
 see with their jugs the milk-girls go
 a frequent question: ``tell me who
 with a Venetian maiden who
 sacred to children of Apollo!
 or pine, persuade of yes or no,
 the hero's name's decided too.
 so pious, and so clever too,
 can chatter, and be silent too,
 punctilious in his cotton cap,
 has opened up his serving-trap.
 land where my heart is buried deep.
 the heartache that they bring lies deep.
 though cold I am and sad; in sleep
 land where I learned to love and weep,
 wine of the Comet6 fills the cup;
 he arrives -- the cork goes flying up,
 our friend Katénin8 brought to bear
 an urge to sleep; soon, clear as clear,
 how brilliant with its instant tear!
 complete with broad-brimmed bolivar,
 myself and Eugene, lest a reader
 of mocking turn, or else a breeder
 in winter, on the cast-iron fender,
 My love for it is just as tender,
 bound where the magic bow will send her,
 The city's early sounds awake her;
 Love passed, the Muse appeared, the weather
 I walk the shore,17 I watch the weather,
 still shivering in the bitter weather
 After a fine career, his father
 He gave three balls a year, and rather
 now free, I once more weave together
 their lords, and thwack their palms together;
 When comes my moment to untether?
 and more than once the German baker,
 No moralizing from this joker;
 without preliminary feeler
 He cursed Theocritus and Homer,
 exercised, under lucre's banner,
 I'll feed the journalists for dinner
 you newborn work, and like a winner
 it frankly, I'm a firm adorer
 Eugene was free, and as a dresser
 make Juvenal his text, or better
 add vale when he signed a letter;
 Russia's Terpsichore, shall never
 your chorus, is it dead for ever?
 with brilliant conquests by the shower,
 You too, prime beauties in your flower
 his freedom, in his youth's first flower,
 by drozhkies jaunting at full power
 she's up and flying through the air
 a deft arrangement to his hair,
 exists for me one special pair!
 in, past concierge, up marble stair
 no, nothing caused his heart to stir,
 but, when he'd rushed to Uncle's manor,
 the cabinet behind the door
 made London's dandy his professor.
 He's off -- this ruthless legislator
 for the footlights, this fickle traitor
 and nothing pierced his senses' blur.
 Then with a half-ethereal splendour,
 Exhausted by the ballroom's clamour,
 he sleeps, away from glare and glamour,
 Now Latin's gone quite out of favour;
 of the dull shores of my disfavour,
 Onegin knew enough to savour
 to mourn for Russia's gloomy savour,
 on most occasions between friends,
 and by Repentance. All this lends,
 mills, lands and waters -- he whose goods
 the total ownership of woods,
 no mansions, no ballrooms, no bards.
 although there are no streets, no cards,
 to all the most adored actrices,
 recalling earlier time's romances,
 and ananas, the gold of trees.
 of Dian's visage, in our fancies
 brushes on thirty different scales;
 twirls the other slowly as she pleases,
 frightening with all despair's disguises,
 straight to his stall, then turns his glasses
 Applause. Onegin enters -- passes
 the footmen sleep on the pelisses;
 this denizen of the coulisses
 Along the fronts of darkened houses,
 What? Invitations? Yes, three houses
 Some days he's still in bed, and drowses,
 along the street where slumber drowses,
 to lie down at her feet like slaves!
 how envious was I of the waves
 while roar of violins contrives
 to drown the hiss of modish wives.
 of kindling smiles in ladies' eyes.
 like fluff before Aeolian breezes;
 How well he donned new shapes and sizes --
 haphazard; so, to God be thanks,
 to pass for cultured in our ranks.
 to scorn the men with whom he deals;
 ghostlike, must trouble him who feels --
 brushes for teeth, brushes for nails.
 the boxes; boiling, pit and stalls;
 and up the rustling curtain crawls.
 the legatee of his relations --
 the safest place for declarations,
 In days of carefree aspirations,
 Such were a young rake's meditations --
 an ode in twenty-five cantos.
 of ladies and of freakish fops.
 project in silhouette the tops
 and soon, oh soon the storm's arrears
 I'm grieving still, but no more tears,
 across the public's toes; he steers
 on unknown ladies in the tiers;
 they're all chained up in different fetters,
 He'd given up girls -- now gave up letters,
 what occupied his chafing powers
 throughout the boredom of the hours --
 he'll spend before the looking-glass,
 then from his cabinet he'll pass
 I love their feet -- though I confess
 in fact a thorough fop, no less.
 the crush, the glitter and the gladness,
 the atmosphere of youth and madness,
 I suffered once from all the madness
 No one's, I swear by God! in sadness
 with passion and with shrewd obliqueness
 across our snows of northern bleakness
 Nursed in the orient's languid weakness,
 stalking the momentary weakness,
 the ladies' calculated dress;
 by now he's driving home to dress.
 Eugene's a pedant in his dress,
 but Eugene's out from din and press:
 (my tale's beginning here repeats);
 in sighs and boredom and deceits
 The yard was bursting with dependants;
 friends, foes, priests, guests, inured attendants
 And what's more, they're so supercilious,
 so circumspect, and so punctilious,
 and act the humble or imperious,
 the indifferent, or the deadly serious!
 of useful objects that the curious
 or for the modishly luxurious --
 to the beginning of our days.
 that once I spent my happiest days?
 such shadowy and leisured ways,
 objective of his thoughts and joys:
 the new ballet he should be at.
 she'll spin this way and that, and beat
 The World found this enough to treat
 fire of the cutlets' scalding fat,
 the gift of recognizing what
 you loved the opulent contact
 against each other swift, small feet.
 are just as nimble as their feet.
 of ladies' heads, and ladies' feet;
 Eugene as clever, and quite sweet.
 across the stage; he yawns: ``Ballet --
 on ballroom's looking-glass parquet
 and watch your daughters closer yet,
 blue smoke of chimneys goes aloft,
 shutters are opened and the soft
 shall my sad gaze no more alight
 in their gay glass, the borrowed light
 this child of luxury and delight.
 again I see your soulful flight?
 in the mazurka he was light,
 converting morning to midnight,
 outside and in they star the night;
 by Neva, on a summer night,
 still everywhere the lamps are bright;
 should have been analysed when caught,
 or else... or else, may God forfend it!
 You too, mamas, I pray attend it,
 their looks and language in deceit
 with cranium aching fit to split;
 or languid bosoms; and no visit
 of simple product supplements it.
 a nation's wealth is, what augments it,
 full of his usual pith and wit,
 of rugs, and carpets' rich refinement.
 and fatherland and grim confinement?
 to freedom, softness and enjoyment:
 and in retreat from all enjoyment
 and every day its own enjoyment?
 its work, its torture, its enjoyment,
 his young heyday's supreme employment,
 he ended even your employment;
 But was it happy, his employment,
 Was it not in such sweet employment
 that's where my years of youth were spent.
 there, where the coulisse entrance went,
 what flowers of spring display your dint?
 madman, can you forget their print?
 our deep economist had got
 and satisfied with what he'd got,
 made over to them his whole lot,
 of the Terpsichorean foot.
 the blood within my withered heart,
 the wilful fancies of the heart.
 one thing inspired his breath, his heart,
 o fields -- to you I'm vowed at heart.
 and fastens, like a term of art,
 once more the love, once more the smart...
 in showing how to tell apart
 and self-oblivion was his art!
 the heart of the professional flirt!
 or Russia's chondria, for short;
 how well he knew the way to hurt --
 as well-read, though of pedant cast.
 with sabre's slash, and bullet's blast.
 yet he fell out of love at last
 amusing, flattering with the best,
 startling the ingenuous with a jest,
 for raking up historic dust
 as horses whirled him through the dust.
 by will of Zeus, the high and just,
 or stirring annalistic must;
 with lampions studded all about
 glitters with hoar-frost all about.
 ``Make way, make way,'' goes up the shout;
 the sumptuous palais shines out;
 all these are charming! but to put
 And now, my friends, I hear from you
 "When will the devil come for you?"''
 You husbands, deeply I respect you!
 I'm at your service to protect you;
 over the Petersburg pavé --
 that, like proud Byron, I can draw
 to hide a hope, to make a show
 already yawned before the show,
 Proud Albion's lyre is what I follow,
 I only write like this, you know,
 a cheerful glimmer on the snow
 and crisply crunch the morning snow.
 twin lamps of serried coupés throw
 or on the granite of the bay.
 sickroom attendance night and day
 tomorrow just like yesterday.
 I'd still like dances to this day:
 always monotonously gay,
 struck for Evgeny, with its play
 when little notes come on a tray.
 who late at night are whirled away
 I've wasted too much life away!
 Beneath storm's vestment, on the seaway,
 and never stir a foot away!
 wanders in a distracted way
 battling along that watery freeway,
 and how a country lives, and why
 and there, beneath your noonday sky,
 the expanse of fields, so wide, so lonely,
 It all seemed new -- for two days only --
 to sing of others must imply
 it needs no gold if a supply
 Onegin was assessed by many
 (critical judges, strict as any)
 reluctant to exhaust the boy,
 treated his lessons as a ploy.
 on features known, but to that dreary,
 bored with hilarity, and weary,
 before him roast beef, red and gory,
 there Didelot10 crowned himself with glory:
 and pâté, Strasbourg's deathless glory,
 once more Corneille's majestic story;
 That isn't our immediate worry:
 where, in a cab, and furious hurry,
 boredom has just as sure an entry,
 Yes, spleen was waiting like a sentry,
 for in our time, beyond dubiety,
 Capricious belles of grand Society!
 But, did they not corrupt society,
 Alas, on pleasure's wild variety
 where shall he go, my rogue, my hearty?
 a ball here, there a children's party;
