 --------------------------------------
 A man who's active and incisive
 After a fine career, his father
 Alas, on pleasure's wild variety
 Along the fronts of darkened houses,
 And what's more, they're so supercilious,
 And the sly baseness, fit to throttle,
 And now, my friends, I hear from you
 And Eugene? half-awake, half-drowsing,
 And every morning I awake
 Another page of recollection:
 Applause. Onegin enters -- passes
 At first Onegin's tongue produced
 Beneath storm's vestment, on the seaway,
 But was it happy, his employment,
 But when the hour of youthful passion
 But God, how deadly dull to sample
 But you, blest husbands, to the end
 But, did they not corrupt society,
 But, now I've praised the queens of fashion,
 Capricious belles of grand Society!
 Diana's breast, the cheeks of Flora,
 Dressed like -- --,14 duly dreading
 Enchanted land! There like a lampion
 Escaped from social rhyme and reason,
 Eugene was free, and as a dresser
 Eugene would willingly have started
 Eugene as clever, and quite sweet.
 Eugene attends the boulevard,
 Eugene turned countryman. He tasted
 Eugene's a pedant in his dress,
 Evgeny read the sad epistle
 Evgeny stood, with soul regretful,
 Evgeny's total store of knowledge
 Evgeny, hating litigation,
 Exhausted by the ballroom's clamour,
 Fate saved Evgeny from perdition:
 Faublas'3 disciple for an age --
 Fonvizin8 sparkled, freedom's champion,
 Friends of my Ruslan and Lyudmila,
 He lacked the slightest predilection
 He was without that dithyrambic
 He was sweet-natured, and yet wild.
 He gave three balls a year, and rather
 He who has lived and thought is certain
 He mounts the sledge, with daylight fading:
 He cursed Theocritus and Homer,
 He's off -- this ruthless legislator
 He'd given up girls -- now gave up letters,
 He's flown to Talon's,4 calculating
 His hair was fashionably curled,
 His father failed to understand
 His father died; and (as expected)
 How early he'd learnt to dissemble,
 How early on he learnt to trouble
 How well he donned new shapes and sizes --
 How often, when the sky was glowing,
 How soft his glance, or at discretion
 I walk the shore,17 I watch the weather,
 I was Onegin's friend that season.
 I have no leisure to recall;
 I feel a small foot in my hand;
 I regularly take much pleasure
 I signal to each passing sail.
 I liked his quality, the dream
 I only write like this, you know,
 I know (and seek your exculpation)
 I roam by the secluded lake.
 I longed, like every breaker hissing,
 I could describe here his attire;
 I love their feet -- though I confess
 I grasp a stirrup with affection,
 I write, my heart has ceased its pining,
 I suffered once from all the madness
 I'm grieving still, but no more tears,
 I'm at your service to protect you;
 I'd still like dances to this day:
 I've wasted too much life away!
 I've drawn a plan and a projection,
 I'll feed the journalists for dinner
 I'll float in gondola's seclusion;
 Idle again by dedication,
 In fact one day a note came flying
 In languid silence, or the flame
 In days of carefree aspirations,
 In time past, objects of affection
 In French Onegin had perfected
 Istómina,11 thronged all around
 It fascinates by its assurance
 It all seemed new -- for two days only --
 It's time to drop astern the shape
 It's true, I'll not misrepresent them,
 Italian nights, when I'll drink in
 Let others learn from his example!
 Like convicts in a dream released
 Love passed, the Muse appeared, the weather
 ``Make way, make way,'' goes up the shout;
 Meanwhile my novel's opening section
 Meanwhile, attired for morning strolling
 Monsieur l'Abbé, the mediocre,
 More wine, he calls, to drench the flaming
 My uncle -- high ideals inspire him;
 My goddesses! Where are you banished?
 My love for it is just as tender,
 No one's, I swear by God! in sadness
 No moralizing from this joker;
 No, I was born for peace abounding
 No, early on his heart was cooling
 No, never in the hottest fire
 Now Latin's gone quite out of favour;
 Nursed in the orient's languid weakness,
 O Adrian waves, my invocation;
 O flowers, and love, and rustic leisure,
 O Brenta, I'll see you in dream;
 Oh, when, and to what desert banished,
 On the seashore, with storm impending,
 Onegin was assessed by many
 Onegin has outrun us all.
 Onegin knew enough to savour
 Onegin, my good friend, was littered
 Parisian taste invents for one --
 Poets, I'll say in this connection,
 Porcelain and bronzes on the table,
 Proud Albion's lyre is what I follow,
 Rousseau (forgive a short distraction)
 Russia's Terpsichore, shall never
 Shall I depict with expert knowledge
 Silence was everywhere enthralling;
 So now be off to Neva's brink,
 So, like Childe Harold, glum, unpleasing,
 Some days he's still in bed, and drowses,
 Still in the porch, exhausted-stupid,
 Still tumbling, devil, snake and Cupid
 Such were a young rake's meditations --
 That isn't our immediate worry:
 That's when I'll sit down to compose
 The happiness of youth is dead,
 The yard was bursting with dependants;
 The censor's tribute, I'll arrange:
 The bitterness was mine -- the ice
 The city's early sounds awake her;
 The illness with which he'd been smitten
 The World found this enough to treat
 The house is packed out; scintillating,
 Then with a half-ethereal splendour,
 Then, after midday he'll be waking;
 There once I too strolled back and forth:
 Three whole hours, at the least accounting,
 To harmless idleness devoted,
 To whom do you, from all the train
 To private tastes we each subscribe:
 Uncle, in bed, and near to dying,
 Unforced, as conversation passed,
 Up to the porch our hero's driven:
 Was it to no effect that he,
 Was it for you that I became
 Was it not in such sweet employment
 We all meandered through our schooling
 What? Invitations? Yes, three houses
 Whatever for caprice of spending
 "When will the devil come for you?"''
 When comes my moment to untether?
 When out to burst a rival's bubble,
 Which one comes first? It's just the same
 ``Whose glance, provoking inspiration,
 Yes, spleen was waiting like a sentry,
 Yet sweeter far, at such a time,
 You too, mamas, I pray attend it,
 You too, prime beauties in your flower
 You husbands, deeply I respect you!
 Your curiosity is burning
 a ball here, there a children's party;
 a masculine disguise to aid
 a nation's wealth is, what augments it,
 a haze in me, but I grew used
 a deft arrangement to his hair,
 a cheerful glimmer on the snow
 a mild rebuke was his worst mark,
 a corpse on boards was all he found,
 a great attraction to conversing.
 a frequent question: ``tell me who
 a stride on Petrarch's path, allayed
 across the Baltic in exchange
 across the years to our own time.
 across the stage; he yawns: ``Ballet --
 across the public's toes; he steers
 across our snows of northern bleakness
 add vale when he signed a letter;
 adore the love that comes in dream.
 adorned the sanctum of our sage.
 advises him of dinner-time.
 again I see your soulful flight?
 against each other swift, small feet.
 all these are charming! but to put
 all this, at eighteen years of age,
 along the street where slumber drowses,
 already yawned before the show,
 already tends too much to smile
 although there are no streets, no cards,
 always monotonously gay,
 always contented with his life,
 amusing, flattering with the best,
 an ode in twenty-five cantos.
 an offering ready for the ground.
 an urge to sleep; soon, clear as clear,
 and pâté, Strasbourg's deathless glory,
 and radiate a rainbow: blazing
 and take due warning from my speech.
 and band already tired of blowing,
 and captive girls, by Salgir20 lying.
 and fastens, like a term of art,
 and watch your daughters closer yet,
 and fatherland and grim confinement?
 and satisfied with what he'd got,
 and yawn in silence at the stage
 and act the humble or imperious,
 and he was bored with social noise;
 and leant upon the granite shelf;
 and self-oblivion was his art!
 and telling trochee from iambic
 and set off prompter than a whistle
 and never played a shrewder trick.
 and never stir a foot away!
 and the majestic, antlered royal,
 and the derivative Knyazhnín:8
 and then a boat, with oars a-swinging,
 and then a drozhky's clopping sound
 and then a stroll in Letny Park.
 and when its waters were not showing,
 and then, with an enchanting grace,
 and where most surely notes are sped.
 and there at large he goes patrolling
 and there, beneath your noonday sky,
 and though he liked a fiery quarrel --
 and though to do so would be daring,
 and hid the bookshelf's dusty stack
 and sighs, and asks oneself all through:
 and listen for the heart's first sound,
 and with a yawn took up his pen,
 and with his dinner, and his wife.
 and glad he was he'd thus arranged
 and glumly serves the medicine bottle,
 and in retreat from all enjoyment
 and on their captivating trail
 and ananas, the gold of trees.
 and entered. Ballroom overflowing...
 and so, before the world of learning,
 and took a mortgage on his land.
 and soon, oh soon the storm's arrears
 and more than once the German baker,
 and nothing pierced his senses' blur.
 and country stillness: there the lyre
 and how a country lives, and why
 and now at last he saw the World.
 and up the rustling curtain crawls.
 and bred upon the Neva's brink,
 and tried to write, but a hard session
 and friends and friendship, soul-destroying;
 and crisply crunch the morning snow.
 and truffles, which have ever been
 and dutifully shared his life
 and every day its own enjoyment?
 and everything is cramped and loud;
 and by Repentance. All this lends,
 and, with it, forced renown to come --
 are just as nimble as their feet.
 as I recall a bygone age?
 as was the old suspicious sage,
 as fast as post-horses could go,
 as well-read, though of pedant cast.
 as if some goal had been achieved.
 as files, and scissors straight and curving,
 as horses whirled him through the dust.
 at feasts, was strong and fancy-free?
 at the Academic Diction-book.
 at first Madame gave him tuition,
 at Cleopatra, hiss her off,
 at once they give a man the spleen.
 battling along that watery freeway,
 before him roast beef, red and gory,
 before Onegin there collected
 beside unfinished lines, a suite
 blue smoke of chimneys goes aloft,
 boo Phaedra out as paralytic,
 bored with hilarity, and weary,
 boredom has just as sure an entry,
 both hearts to blaze had now expired;
 bound where the magic bow will send her,
 brushes on thirty different scales;
 brushes for teeth, brushes for nails.
 but I refuse to chop or change.
 but I'm allergic to the North...1
 but I, in love, was dull and dumb.
 but pantaloons, waistcoat, and frock,
 but when past joking he fell sick,
 but soon the ways we trod were parted
 but groomed an anecdote-collection
 but Eugene's out from din and press:
 but by and large their talk's a hash
 but, when he'd rushed to Uncle's manor,
 by Naiads, one foot on the ground,
 by Neva, on a summer night,
 by will of Zeus, the high and just,
 by now he's driving home to dress.
 by drozhkies jaunting at full power
 came distant horns, and gallant singing.
 can yet keep nail-care much in mind:
 can chatter, and be silent too,
 champion of rights, as in the wrong.
 complete with broad-brimmed bolivar,
 condemned to a lifetime of hard,
 converting morning to midnight,
 could not conceive how solemn Grimm13
 (critical judges, strict as any)
 custom is despot of mankind.
 dared clean his nails in front of him,
 days that are lost behind the curtain,
 dead ash sets no more sparks a-flying;
 dear ladies' feet fly past like hail,
 deep in Moldavia the abhorred,
 drink in the midnight benediction,
 each in tumultuous turn descending
 earn for me the rewards of fame --
 emotion, thought, and magic sound;
 encore Moëna,7 -- and rejoice
 ended his wild career of fashion
 enough of my loquacious lyre:
 ever so roughly rocked my soul!
 exercised, under lucre's banner,
 exists for me one special pair!
 fancies once more are hotly bubbling,
 far, far from Italy, his adored.
 felicitously every theme,
 fever of rhyme: thereby he's doubled
 finding in that no deprivation --
 fire of the cutlets' scalding fat,
 flown like an arrow, then he's given
 for raking up historic dust
 for the footlights, this fickle traitor
 for him all sham has found rejection,
 for his old courses to be changed.
 for in our time, beyond dubiety,
 for unmeant kindness -- how he shone!
 for wood and tallow; all the range
 for friends of languor, or of fun,
 for quite a while by fortune's hand.
 frenzy which wrecks our lives for sound,
 friends, foes, priests, guests, inured attendants
 frightening with all despair's disguises,
 from ball to bed behold him come;
 from gaol to greenwood, by such fiction
 from her Monsieur took on the child.
 from her my lips will learn and mark
 from the agent, with this tale to tell:
 from Million Street16 came floating round;
 from Boston's cloth or gossip's quote;
 fruits of my labour and my ink...
 full of his usual pith and wit,
 ghostlike, must trouble him who feels --
 giddy as Venus when she's mounting
 glitters with hoar-frost all about.
 gripped him no more; soon they were raising
 had only debts on which to live.
 haphazard; so, to God be thanks,
 has voices that are more resounding,
 has opened up his serving-trap.
 have each asked him to a soirée:
 have other maidens, since you vanished,
 he had the talent of saluting
 he failed to join that sharp profession
 he saw that, as in cities, here
 he read, and read -- no satisfaction:
 he really forced one to admire him --
 he sleeps, away from glare and glamour,
 he ended even your employment;
 he arrives -- the cork goes flying up,
 he stalked the drawing-rooms, remote
 he stood there, pensive and forgetful,
 he strove to achieve the appropriation
 he turns away: ``I've had enough --
 he's seen it all; with looks and fashion
 he's viewed the boxes without passion,
 he's gnawed by serpent Recollection,
 he'd pop the poison in his chalice!
 he's bowed politely; his attention
 he's dreadfully dissatisfied;
 he'll spend before the looking-glass,
 hear, once more filled with inspiration,
 her progress at the masquerade.
 here there's no conscience, here no sense;
 here's boredom, madness or pretence,
 his beefsteak with champagne, or drown
 his life till dawn's already making,
 his mind, so cold and so precise.
 his virulence that made you smile,
 his collar in its beaver braiding
 his young heyday's supreme employment,
 his bow was wholly unaffected.
 his epigrams topped up with bile.
 his freedom, in his youth's first flower,
 his strangeness, wholly unaffected,
 his Strasbourg pie, or point a moral,
 how well he knew the way to hurt --
 how envious was I of the waves
 how bold or bashful there, and here
 how brilliant with its instant tear!
 impart such lessons as you please!
 in fact a thorough fop, no less.
 in taffeta of mourning black.
 in casual letters of confession --
 in Adam Smith was his diploma;
 in terms of poetry or passion --
 in the mazurka he was light,
 in their gay glass, the borrowed light
 in showing how to tell apart
 in sighs and boredom and deceits
 in winter, on the cast-iron fender,
 in lives that were just dawning then.
 in, past concierge, up marble stair
 incendiary looks are slinking,
 ingenious London has been sending
 inspires your lute to sounds of sighing?
 is finished, and I've looked it through
 is in your poetry enshrined?''
 is dressed, undressed, and dressed once more?
 it was goodbye, Monsieur l'Abbé.
 it mastered him in slow gradation;
 it needs no gold if a supply
 it frankly, I'm a firm adorer
 it's easy, without too much fooling,
 ``it's time!'' and freedom hears my hail.
 it's my profession; he was wearing --
 its work, its torture, its enjoyment,
 just sentries to each other calling,
 just like a shadow, or a wife.
 just like, on turf, your fleeting tread.
 just as the Poet15 paints himself.
 land where I learned to love and weep,
 land where my heart is buried deep.
 lend ears to my lugubrious tone:
 let me acquaint you on the nail
 like fluff before Aeolian breezes;
 locked himself up inside his den
 long since unstirred by praise and fame
 made London's dandy his professor.
 made over to them his whole lot,
 madman, can you forget their print?
 make Juvenal his text, or better
 meticulously; in my fiction
 mills, lands and waters -- he whose goods
 misunderstanding, noise, and blame!``
 (my tale's beginning here repeats);
 my carefree song would thus reveal
 my Africa,18 where waves break high,
 my thoughtless pen has stopped designing,
 my disillusioned glass, and yearn,
 my little feet, where have you vanished,
 my soul in secret gave survival;
 myself and Eugene, lest a reader
 no mansions, no ballrooms, no bards.
 no glance so sweet, no sigh so teasing,
 no word came flowing from his quill;
 no, not for long were belles the ruling
 no, nothing caused his heart to stir,
 not every day could he wash down
 now pay attention, I beseech,
 now sensitive, and now carefree,
 now free, I once more weave together
 now even Didelot's tedious stuff.''
 o fields -- to you I'm vowed at heart.
 objective of his thoughts and joys:
 of ladies and of freakish fops.
 of ladies' heads, and ladies' feet;
 of raging passion's surge and roll
 of calculated slander should,
 of jealous girls, devote its strain?
 of jealousy, to seem to tremble
 of recompense beyond endurance,
 of the Terpsichorean foot.
 of the most harmless, hopeless trash.
 of the dull shores of my disfavour,
 of Dian's visage, in our fancies
 of simple product supplements it.
 of mind got clarity new-found;
 of kindling smiles in ladies' eyes.
 of listening like a judge-supreme
 of blind Fortuna and of men
 of eloquence, and just the same
 of entertaining the half-dead:
 of mocking turn, or else a breeder
 of boiling youth did I desire
 of hope and gloom, romantic-fashion,
 of work made him feel sick, and still
 of love's anxiety. Blessed is he
 of useful objects that the curious
 of other's thought -- a splendid goal;
 of rugs, and carpets' rich refinement.
 of every funeral far and wide;
 old Uncle's end was soon to be.
 on ballroom's looking-glass parquet
 on waves of far niente floated,
 on features known, but to that dreary,
 on unknown ladies in the tiers;
 on words of foreign derivation,
 on most occasions between friends,
 on springtime grasses of the field,
 on stage are thumping without cease;
 once more that touch is fiercely troubling
 once more the love, once more the smart...
 once more Corneille's majestic story;
 one pair! I pay them memory's tribute
 one thing inspired his breath, his heart,
 one smoothes the pillows down in bed,
 oppressed by emptiness of soul,
 or languid bosoms; and no visit
 or pine, persuade of yes or no,
 or else, from far off, he could see
 or else... or else, may God forfend it!
 or on the granite of the bay.
 or for the modishly luxurious --
 or stirring annalistic must;
 or Russia's chondria, for short;
 or, with an epigram-surprise,
 our deep economist had got
 our lives were flat, and what had fired
 our friend Katénin8 brought to bear
 outside and in they star the night;
 over the Petersburg pavé --
 peopled my sleep, and to their theme
 poetic dreams, a brighter fire.
 poetry's sacred frenzy, made
 proficiency to speak and write,
 project in silhouette the tops
 promptly had nothing left to give.
 punctilious in his cotton cap,
 pursue his love -- and at one bound
 put back the libel on the table
 reader, or where you've shone and glittered!
 recalling earlier time's romances,
 recalling earlier loves, did we,
 reluctant to exhaust the boy,
 retired, as he, from fashion's stream,
 rewards the music of your mind
 sacred to children of Apollo!
 secure a secret assignation,
 see with their jugs the milk-girls go
 self-portraits only -- furthermore
 shadows that flit behind the glazing
 shall my sad gaze no more alight
 she's up and flying through the air
 she'll spin this way and that, and beat
 should have been analysed when caught,
 shows freedom's advocate, that strong
 shutters are opened and the soft
 sickroom attendance night and day
 since I stopped sinning years ago.
 since I'm a member of the same.
 sits with Limburg's vivacious cheese
 sleep much, read little, and put down
 so pious, and so clever too,
 so circumspect, and so punctilious,
 so virtuous that, no sooner seen,
 so pure, so spotless through and through,
 some ladies preach from Say and Bentham,
 something like spleen, that scourge of Britain,
 sometimes, in reverie's sacred land,
 soon, infidelity proved cloying,
 spurs of Chevalier Gardes are clinking,
 spying my features, as he could,
 stalking the momentary weakness,
 startling the ingenuous with a jest,
 still shivering in the bitter weather
 still coughing, hissing, clapping, champing;
 still everywhere the lamps are bright;
 straight to his stall, then turns his glasses
 struck for Evgeny, with its play
 stumblingly call to mind he did
 such shadowy and leisured ways,
 such crystalled scents as best are able
 swam on the river's dreaming face,
 swaying the artless, waiting on
 taken your place, though not your throne?
 thank God, he had no inclination
 that there his friend Kavérin's5 waiting;
 that king of the satiric scene,
 that alien scene must I now turn
 that all of Russia can't contribute
 that once I spent my happiest days?
 that world where every man's a critic
 that stretched from Romulus in his prime
 that even so my wretched style
 that's where my years of youth were spent.
 that, like proud Byron, I can draw
 the cabinet behind the door
 the ladies' calculated dress;
 the safest place for declarations,
 the magic voices of your stream,
 the gallery claps -- it's bored with waiting --
 the ballroom drove me off my head:
 the pangs with which his heart was troubled,
 the barbs that envy's always spreading,
 the meaning of an epigraph,
 the heart of the professional flirt!
 the heartache that they bring lies deep.
 the legatee of his relations --
 the merchant's up, the cabman's walking
 the hero's name's decided too.
 the new ballet he should be at.
 the charge that poets are unable
 the third day, wood and hill and grazing
 the thought of volatile renown.
 the gift of recognizing what
 the highest circles are a bore.
 the silence when our talk had ceased!
 the wilful fancies of the heart.
 the flaming roses of a cheek,
 the blood within my withered heart,
 the ancients have gone stiff and cold,
 the indifferent, or the deadly serious!
 the coachmen ring the fire, and curse
 the moderns rage against the old.
 the tongue of love and of Petrarch.
 the coolness of the sombre glade,
 the footmen sleep on the pelisses;
 the horses fidget worse and worse;
 the total ownership of woods,
 the mountain maiden,19 my ideal,
 the boxes; boiling, pit and stalls;
 the brilliant crackpot: this reaction
 the art he'd studied best of all,
 the crush, the glitter and the gladness,
 the usurers' voracious tribe.
 the atmosphere of youth and madness,
 the strain of Tasso's octave-rhyme!
 the subtle spouse was just as loyal --
 the audience still is busy stamping,
 the sumptuous palais shines out;
 the murmur where the streamlet played...
 the expanse of fields, so wide, so lonely,
 their looks and language in deceit
 their lords, and thwack their palms together;
 then he'd implore a declaration,
 then afterwards, alone, at ease,
 then from the Muse there came revival:
 then from his cabinet he'll pass
 then suddenly she's off, and there
 there waited for us both the malice
 there gathered at the coffin-side
 there caustic Shakhovskóy8 came in
 there сzerov8 shared the unwilling
 there Didelot10 crowned himself with glory:
 there's far too much of contradiction,
 there, where the coulisse entrance went,
 these words are not of Russian stock:
 they all have richly earned a pension;''
 they don't deserve what they inspire
 they buried Uncle, congregated
 they're all chained up in different fetters,
 this was the science of that passion
 this denizen of the coulisses
 this child of luxury and delight.
 though years ago I used to look
 though cold I am and sad; in sleep
 three pairs of handsome ones -- yet there
 through it they're known to me, and kin.
 throughout the boredom of the hours --
 till then had been dispersed and wasted --
 to pass for cultured in our ranks.
 to eat and drink, then separated
 to scorn the men with whom he deals;
 to hear what latest modes require,
 to gentlemen on every side
 to the beginning of our days.
 to hide a hope, to make a show
 to lie down at her feet like slaves!
 to life grew colder than the dead.
 to sing of others must imply
 to his disputing and his cursing;
 to kiss Armida's lips, or seek
 to all the most adored actrices,
 to blow his brains out, but in stead
 to smother her dear feet with kissing.
 to know the audience hears his voice.
 to do them all is easy game.
 to mourn for Russia's gloomy savour,
 to freedom, softness and enjoyment:
 to drive the swooning senses mad;
 to drown the hiss of modish wives.
 tomorrow just like yesterday.
 towards his stall, the pedlar's hawking;
 treated his lessons as a ploy.
 tribute of tears, applause's shrilling,
 twin lamps of serried coupés throw
 twirls the other slowly as she pleases,
 two verses of the Aeneid.
 under the table's linen shield,
 until Bréguet's unsleeping chime
 untirable, at sound of drum:
 wanders in a distracted way
 was his; we'd both drunk passion's chalice:
 was quite beyond his wit, we found.
 we were swept off, in reverie's haze,
 we'd better hasten to the ball,
 what occupied his chafing powers
 what flowers of spring display your dint?
 what traps he'd set him, with what malice
 when shall I start on my escape?
 when little notes come on a tray.
 when Bréguet's chime is heard proclaiming
 where he was master of his college,
 where shall he go, my rogue, my hearty?
 where the prize-boy of fashion's college
 where you were born as well, I think,
 where, in a cab, and furious hurry,
 which I myself won't praise or blame
 which held him silently subjected,
 which Ovid sang, for which the bard,
 while a mazurka holds the crowd;
 while serious topics were disputing,
 while Petersburg's already rousing,
 while roar of violins contrives
 who can combine it with the free
 who late at night are whirled away
 who'll clap an entrechat, or scoff
 why fight what's known to be decisive?
 will in my soul be hushed and dying.
 wine of the Comet6 fills the cup;
 wished him to come and say farewell.
 with a Venetian maiden who
 with sabre's slash, and bullet's blast.
 with lampions studded all about
 with passion and with shrewd obliqueness
 with me to see an alien strand;
 with shelves of books deployed for action,
 with this the hero of my tale:
 with amber pipes from Tsaregrad;12
 with any torture so exquisite
 with combs, and steel utensils serving
 with comedies of swarm and din;
 with fond caress? whose adoration
 with young Semyónova,9 and there
 with cranium aching fit to split;
 with grave goodbyes to the bereaved,
 with brilliant conquests by the shower,
 without preliminary feeler
 yes, focus on them your lorgnette,
 yet he fell out of love at last
 yet, truthfully and not in chaff,
 you left no steps that could be tracked:
 you kept your friendship with our friend:
 you were the first ones he forswore;
 you newborn work, and like a winner
 you loved the opulent contact
 your chorus, is it dead for ever?
 your molten gold, your charmed infusion;
 youth's choice, the flower of French cuisine:
